Columns to include in XLSX file:

Gene(s)

    must not be empty

    Enter NR when not recorded

    For multi-snp haplotypes use a single comma separated list e.g. ACT1, ERT1

    For SNP interactions separate per interaction using an ‘x’, if more than one gene is assigned to an interaction use a comma e.g. NR x FRS2, SFRP1
    Enter "intergenic" when SNP reported as intergenic

Strongest SNP-Risk Allele

    must not be empty

    For multi-snp haplotypes use a single semi-colon separated list e.g. rs789-?; rs111-?; rs333-?

    For SNP interactions separate per interaction using an ‘x’ e.g. rs4784379-A x rs9804128-G

SNP

    must not be empty

    Enter NR when not recorded

    For multi-snp haplotypes use a single semi-colon separated list e.g. rs7839488; rs4395927; rs9331888

    For SNP interactions separate per interaction using an ‘x’ e.g. rs456 x rs123

Proxy SNP

    must not be empty

    Enter NR when not recorded

    For multi-snp haplotypes use a single comma separated list

    For SNP interactions separate per interaction using an ‘x’

Independent SNP risk allele frequency in controls

    only applies to SNP interaction associations

    leave blank for multi-SNP and standard associations.

    Value must be present for each risk allele in the interaction, NR can be used if not reported. e.g. NR x 1.5

Risk element (allele, haplotype or SNPxSNP interaction) frequency in controls

    must not be empty

    Enter NR if not reported

    Note - In the case of single SNPs the "Independent SNP risk allele frequency" and the "Risk element (allele, haplotype or SNPxSNP interaction) frequency" are the same thing. You only need to enter a value for the "Risk element (allele, haplotype or SNPxSNP interaction) frequency"  for single SNPs. On saving the value will be set for both and stored in the database.

P-value mantissa

    enter p-value mantissa only
    Round to the nearest whole number and enter one digit.

P-value exponent

    enter p-value exponent only

P-value description

    same as in web form
    Free text should be entered within parentheses

Effect type

    must not be empty
    options are "OR", "Beta" and "NR"

OR

    must be either numeric or empty

    If OR reciprocal is given program will calculate OR from that.

OR reciprocal

    must be numeric or empty

Beta

    must be either numeric or empty

Beta Unit

    must contain a unit value

Beta direction

    must be 'increase' or 'decrease'

Range

    if no range is given but there is a standard error, leave blank and program will calculate this value

OR reciprocal range

Standard Error

    must be numeric

OR/Beta description

Multi-SNP Haplotype? (Y/N)

    must not be empty
    options are "Y" and "N"

SNP:SNP interaction? (Y/N)

    must not be empty
    options are "Y" and "N"

SNP Status

    only applies to SNP interaction associations, leave blank for multi-SNP and standard associations.
    Value must be present for each risk allele in the interaction, LL = limited list, GW = genome wide, NR can be used if not reported. e.g. NR x GL,LL x LL

SNP type (novel/known)

    must not be empty

EFO traits

    Must be EFO trait ID e.g. EFO_0004328


NOTE:

- "must not be empty" refers to a literally empty cell. "NR" is a perfectly valid entry

- OR reciprocal range: If OR < 1 and a range is given, the program will automatically OR reciprocal range, provided that *both ends of the range
are greater than 0*! Program can't handle negative ranges, enter that SNP manually.

- Separate SNP interactions using 'x' e.g. rs4784379-A x rs9804128-G

- Separate haplotypes using ',' e.g. rs7839488, rs4395927, rs9331888
